 Hi, it's SJYogesh, from B-Tech CSE Blablable. I know you all know that staff.
Let's hop into the topic. In this presentation I choose the topic, citizen of
India. While I keep on searching for the script, it raised many questions like,
how are we making Indian citizenship so ridiculously cheap? What is the exact
meaning of citizenship of India? Who changed the history? And an important one,
can I get? Full marks after this presentation. Let's rise the dramatic music.
Who is Indian? Who is not? Who can be? These are the questions, which has been
debated in India since independence. Now as we discuss the Citizenship Amendment
Act, the National Register of Citizens, and the aftermath of India's partition
again. Let's have a time travel, how this question has changed over the years.
In 1928, in Mumbai, ooh, sorry, in Bombay, when in all parties conference,
appointed a committee with Mutilal Nero as its chairman. According to the Nero
Report, the word, citizen, meant, every person. It further explained, no person
who is a citizen of a foreign country can be a citizen of the Commonwealth
unless he renounces the citizenship of such foreign country in the manner
prescribed by law. In fact, the Nero Report was quite cool for its time. It
thought of citizenship as based on the place of birth and not based on blood
ties, which considering how rights were being discussed throughout the world in
the late 1920s was exceptionally inclusive. In 1949, a lot has changed since
Mutilal Nero's report, but the most important event is still something that
echoes in contemporary debates on citizenship. The partition, an undivided
India, now partitioned into two, India and Pakistan. Thousands displaced, so
many killed, suddenly Hindus and Muslims, who've lived all their lives on one
piece of land, were made to choose a country to call home. It was against this
backdrop that 299 members of the constituent assembly of India, sat down to
define an Indian citizen. In an argument, eerily similar to what we are hearing
nowadays. Here's what Deshmukh said, we have seen the formation and
establishment of Pakistan. Why was it established? It was established because
the Muslims claimed that. They must have a form of their own in a country of
their own. Here we are an entire nation, with a history of thousands of years,
and we are going to discard it. In spite of the fact that neither the Hindus,
nor the Sikhism, any other place in the world to go to. However Dr. VR Ambedkar
was in a fashion on the 2nd of May 1947, he put forth a clause. All persons born
in India as defined in the General Clause's Act, and who are residing in the
Union, and subject to the jurisdiction of the Union, shall be citizens of the
Union. This was more or less incorporated in the Constitution, which said that,
anyone living in the territory of India on 26 November 1949, was an Indian
citizen. Here what we the people decided citizenship act 1955, apart from VR
Ambedkar's definition, gives four ways in which Indian citizenship can be
acquired. By birth, by descent, by registration, by naturalization. In 1986,
citizenship became restricted to if either of the parents was an Indian citizen,
at the time of birth. In 2003, an amendment was made keeping in mind illegal
migrants in India, making the definition of citizenship even narrower, and of
course, in 2019 when citizenship has been granted to illegal migrants from three
countries. Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh, belonging to six communities,
Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jain, Harsists, and Christians. From 1929 to 2020, the
question of who is an Indian citizen has changed. From an inclusive approach
which included everyone, who's been born in India as its citizen, to one that
has been restricted over the years. The question is, as we enter 2021, how much
more will this definition be changed?